Now, what I want is Facts. Teach these boys and girls nothing but Facts. Facts alone are wanted in life. Plant
nothing else, and root out everything else. You can only form the minds of reasoning animals upon Facts; nothing else will
ever be of any service to them. This is the principle on which I bring up these children. Stick to Facts, sir!"
The scene was a plain, bare monotonous vault of a schoolroom. . . . The speaker, and the schoolmaster, and the
third grown person present, all backed a little, and swept with their eyes the inclined plane of little vessels (the pupils) then
and there arranged in order, ready to have imperial gallons of facts poured into them until they were full to the brim. . . .
"Girl number twenty," said Mr. Gradgrind (the schoolmaster). . . . "Give me your definition of a horse." (Sissy
Jupe thrown into the greatest alarm by this demand.)
"Girl number twenty unable to define a horse!" said Mr. Gradgrind . . . .
"Bitzer," said Thomas Gradgrind, "Your definition of a horse."
"Quadraped. Gramnivorous. Forty teeth, namely twenty-four grinders, four eye-teeth, and twelve
incisive. Sheds coat in the spring; in marshy countries, sheds hoofs too. Hoofs hard, but requiring to be shod with iron. Age
known by marks in the mouth."
". . . Now, girl number twenty," said Mr. Gradgrind. "You know what a horse is. . . . Now let me ask you, girls and
boys, would you paper a room with representations of horses?"
After a pause. . . one half of the children cried in chorus, "Yes, sir!" Upon which the other, seeing that "Yes" was
wrong, cried out in chorus, "No, sir!" as is the custom in these examinations. . . .
"I'll explain to you, then, why you wouldn't paper a room with representation of horses. Do you ever see horses
walking up and down the sides of rooms in reality In fact? Do you?"
"Yes, sir!" from one half. "No, sir!" from the other.
"Of course, No. Why, then, you are not to see anywhere what you don't see in fact, you are not to have anywhere
what you don't have in fact. What is called Taste, is only another name for Fact. . . . "
"You are to be in all things regulated and governed . . . by fact. We hope to have before long, a board of fact,
composed of commissioners of fact, who will force the people to be a people of fact, and of nothing but fact. You must
discard the word Fancy altogether. You have nothing to do with it. You are not to have, in any object of use or ornaments,
what would be a contradiction in fact. You don't walk upon flowers in fact; (therefore), you cannot be allowed to walk upon
flowers in carpets. You don't find foreign birds and butterflies come and perch upon your crockery; you cannot be permitted
to paint foreign birds and butterflies upon your crockery. You never meet with quadrupeds going up and down walls; you
must not have quadrapeds represented upon walls. You must use . . . for all these purposes, combinations and modifications
(in primary colours) of mathematical figures which are susceptible of proof and demonstration. This is the new discovery.
This is fact. This is taste.
